# Keyboard Events

#### Video Notes

## Trip Planner Page

When the `input` updates we calculate the Total Price and update it at the bottom of the page. We want to update the `span` `id` of `#total`


```html
<div class="vacaction" data-price="399.99">
    <h3>Hawaiian Vaction</h3>
    <p>$399.99 per tricket</p>
    <p>
    Tickets:
    <input type="number" class="quantity" value='1' />
    </p>
</div>
<p>Total Price: $ <span id="total">399.99</span></p>
```
## Keyboard and Form Events
We need to be listening to a keyboard event so when a user presses a key we get that quantity and calculate the total price.

Here we listen on the `.quantity` class and pass in the keyboard event of `keyup` which will trigger the event once the user has stopped pressing the key.

```javascript
$(document).ready(function() {
    // using the keyup event on the `.vacation` class
    $('.vacation').on('keyup','.quantity',function() {
        // Get the price of the vacation

        // Get the quantity entered

        // Set the total to price * quantity
    });
});
```
The keyboard events are `keypress`, `keydown`,`keyup`

Form events are `blur`,`select`,`change`,`focus`,`submit`

Inside of our event handeler we want to perform 3 tasks

1. Get the price for the vacation out of the `data` element
2. Get the quantity entered out of the `input` field
3. Set the total price to `price * quantity`


```javascript
$(document).ready(function() {
    // using the keyup event on the `.vacation` class
    $('.vacation').on('keyup','.quantity',function() {
        // finding the price of the vacation
        // the `+` turns our price into a number.
        var price = +$(this).closest('.vacation').data('price');
        // Get the quantity entered

        // Set the total to price * quantity
    });
});

```
**The `data-price` is a string and we want it as a number so we can do some multiplication on it. To convert the string into a number we add a `+` before `$(this)` like so**

`var price = +$(this).closest('.vacation').data('price');`

Now that we have our `price` we need get the quantity.
We can do this simply with jQuerys built in `val()` object method

Notice that we are using the `+` operator again to convert the string into a number.


```javascript
$(document).ready(function() {
    // using the keyup event on the `.vacation` class
    $('.vacation').on('keyup','.quantity',function() {
        // finding the price of the vacation
        // the `+` turns our price from a string into a number
        var price = +$(this).closest('.vacation').data('price');
        // getting our quantity entered with the `val()` method
        var quantity = +$(this).val();
        // Set the total to price * quantity
    });
});
```

Ok so the last thing we need to get is the total..How might we do this.
Well we know that we need to take `price` and `quantity` and `*` them together.

We access the `#total` `id` and then use the `text()` method to store the expression `.text(price * quantity);` which will print the total ammount to the `#total` `span` `id`

```javascript
$(document).ready(function() {
    // using the keyup event on the `.vacation` class
    $('.vacation').on('keyup','.quantity',function() {
        // finding the price of the vacation
        // the `+` turns our price from a string into a number
        var price = +$(this).closest('.vacation').data('price');
        // getting our quantity entered with the `val()` method
        var quantity = +$(this).val();
        // Set the total to price * quantity
         $('#total').text(price * quantity);
    });
});
```
# Exercises

## 4.13 Keyup Event
We've made a few changes to our tour page. Now we'll allow travelers to specify how many days they want their vacation to be.

Write an event handler that will fire whenever the value within the `keyup` event is triggered on the `#nights` form field. The function can be empty now, then we'll implement it later.

```javascript
$(document).ready(function() {
    $('.tour').on('keyup','#nights',function(){
        // Get the total number of nights
    });
});
```
## 4.14 Keyup Event Handler I
Within our event handler, update the number of nights in the `#nights-count` element to whatever the traveler entered in the `#nights` form field.

```javascript
$(document).ready(function() {
    $('.tour').on('keyup','#nights',function(){
        // Get the total number of nights by updating the `nights-count` element to what the traveler entered

        // finding the `nights-count` id then using the `text()` method
        // to access the value from value within the form with the
        // `val()` method.
        $('#nights-count').text($(this).val());

    });
});
```
I wanna make sure that we understand what is happening here in this code. `$('#nights-count').text($(this).val());`

So first things first..we need to remember that we are inside of our event handeler.Now inside our event handeler we are to accessing the `#nights-count` `id` like so `$('#nights-count')`

Then we are chaining the jQuery text method onto `#nights-count` like so `$('#nights-count').text()` this allows us to access the text contents of `#nights-count`

Once we have our text method in place then we need access the value of our form `input` field. We do this by adding the `$(this)` object inside of our text method like so `text($(this))`

By using the `$(this)` it allow us to now have access to the the value from within our form field. We achieve this by using the jQuery helper method `val()` which allows us to get the exact value from within the the input field of our for like so `text($(this).val());`

So heres our code in full. There are a few steps here that are quite importaint so try to understand how this works before you move on.

`$('#nights-count').text($(this).val());`

## 4.15 Keyup Event Handler II

Set the content of the `#total` element to the number the traveler has entered into the form field multiplied by the daily price.

```javascript
$(document).ready(function(){
    $('.tour').on('keyup',function(){
        $('#nights-count').text($(this).val());
        // setting a variable that contains the dailyPrice rate
        var dailyPrice =+$(this).cloeset('.tour').data('daily-price');
        // setting a variable that contains the number of nights
        // the user wishes to stay
        var nights =+$(this).val();

        // multiplying dailyPrice and nights to get the full rate
        $('#total').text(dailyPrice * nights);
    });
});
```

I'd like to breakdown what is happening in the code above..

First off we need to understand what we need to do.

The question states clearly that we need to set the **content** of the `#total` element to the *number of nights the user wishes to stay and multiply these nights by the daily price*.

To be able to multiply the number of nights by the daily price rate we need to access each of there values. To access each of the values we must set two variables that will fetch and store each of the values.


### First Variable

So first off lets set a variable for the daily price rate which will store our first value.

`var dailyPrice`

Now we need to access the data attribute that will contains the daily price rate and to do that we are going to need to use `+$(this).closest('.tour').data('data-price');` remember in our notes above that `+` converts the string to a number. Well in our `data-price` attribute our price in in a string so we must remember to use `+` to convert strings to numbers!

Inside of `dailyPrice` we are accessing the closest element to `.tour` which is the `data-daily-price` attribute through the `data()` method.

`var dailyPrice = +$(this).closest(".tour").data("daily-price");`

### Second Variable

Now for the second variable which will store the number of nights
`var nights`

To get the number of nights the user is staying we need to access the **value** of our form field which contains the number of nights that they are staying.

To perform that task we will need to use +$(this) and chain on `val()` method which will access the value of a form field like so

`var nights = +$(this).val();`

### Multiplication
Now for our final step..We need to take the values that we have collected and multiply them. To do this we are going to need to access our `#total` element then chain in the `text()` method which will take our two variables and multiply them.

`$('#total').text(dailyPrice * nights);`
